# 5.2.1: AJAX POST Requests

## Introduction

We will use POST requests with AJAX to create new `Item` entries in the DB. We will update our frontend logic to send POST requests \(first with hard-coded data, then with user input\), and update our backends to accept and handle those POST requests.

## Exercise

### Setup Server and Items Route

1. Clone the [`ajax-bootcamp` repo](https://github.com/rocketacademy/ajax-bootcamp)
2. Install NPM packages
3. Run migrations and seeds with Sequelize. There is a migration and seed file in the repo.
4. Start server locally
5. Visit `http://localhost:3004/items` in the browser to verify the server is set up and the browser can receive items in the response.

### Create New Page that Sends AJAX POST Request

1. Add a new route for a page
2. Add a view for this page
3. Add a `script` tag to the view page for a JavaScript file called `script.js`
4. Add a JavaScript file called `script.js` to the `public` folder
5. Add a `script` tag to the view page to import Axios

   ```html
   <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/axios/dist/axios.min.js"></script>
   ```

6. Add this Axios example to `script.js`

   ```javascript
   const data = {
     name: 'orange',
     description: 'zesty',
   };

   // Make a request to create an item
   axios
     .post('/items', data)
     .then((response) => {
       // handle success
       console.log(response);
     })
     .catch((error) => {
       // handle error
       console.log(error);
     });
   ```

7. Read [more about Axios here.](https://github.com/axios/axios/blob/master/README.md#example)

### Express Body Parser Configuration

We will bind another body parser middleware `express.json()` to Express to read data from our AJAX POST request and populate `request.body`, because data in AJAX POST requests is packaged differently from those in form submissions.

```javascript
app.use(express.json());
```

### Add POST Route to handle AJAX POST Request

Bind a new POST route to our Express app to receive the AJAX POST request data, create a new `Item` entry in the DB, and return the new item to the client.

### Manipulate DOM with Server Response

After we receive the server response, manipulate the DOM to show the new item in the HTML page.

### Add HTML Input Elements to Accept User Input

Add 2 input fields and a button to the page. When the user clicks the button, read the values in the 2 input fields and send our POST request with that data. Note we do not use a `form` element, because HTML forms do not allow us to easily customise response handling. Thus we define a custom on-click handler for our button that sends an AJAX request on button click to customise how we handle the server response, i.e. to perform DOM manipulation with the response data.

## Improve Frontend UX by adding a loading overlay

Currently, when you execute the AJAX POST request, the page does nothing. If an impatient user clicks on the button multiple times, then multiple post requests will be launched.

It would be better to add a loading overlay to let the user know that something is happening in the background. We will use the package `js-loading-overlay` to accomplish this.

1. Add a new `script` tag to your view page to import the package.

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/js-loading-overlay@1.1.0/dist/js-loading-overlay.min.js"></script>
```

2. Call the `show()` function before the axios call.

    ```javascript
    
    //show the loading overlay
    JsLoadingOverlay.show();

    // Make a request to create an item
    axios
      .post('/items', data)
    
    ...
    ```

3. Call the `hide()` once the promise completes.

    ```javascript
      
      //show the loading overlay
      JsLoadingOverlay.show();

      // Make a request to create an item
      axios
        .post('/items', data)
        .then((response) => {

          //hide the loading overlay
          JsLoadingOverlay.hide();
          
          // handle success
          console.log(response);
        })
        ...
    ```


3. Call the `hide()` also in the error case. 

    ```javascript   

        .catch((error) => {

          //hide the loading overlay
          JsLoadingOverlay.hide();

          // handle error
          console.log(error);
        });
        
      ```

{% hint style="warning" %}
    Not to do this is a common mistake you see all over the internet. If an error occurs, the loading screen will never go away.
{% endhint %}
