# 1.2: ES6 Basics

## Introduction

[ES6](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_es6.asp) is a modern, widely-used version of JavaScript. Every language matures over time as its maintainers release new versions. JavaScript began with few features and has slowly added new ones.

In Coding Basics we mostly used ES5 syntax for simplicity, where ES5 is an older version of JavaScript. In Coding Bootcamp we wish to expose students to the more advanced and modern features of JavaScript seen with ES6. Many companies continue to use ES5 and older syntax depending on when their code was written. ES6 was only released in 2015.

In frontend web development \(where JS is most commonly seen\), it's important to choose a JS version that is compatible across most browsers. This is because we do not control the version of JS that gets executed for our users. The version depends on _**where**_ the code is running, which is typically a user's browser out of our control. We may not know if the user is accessing our site from an iPhone or a [smart fridge](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/aug/13/teen-smart-fridge-twitter-grounded). On many devices users are unable to upgrade their browser, the software that determines the specific version of JS.

We will not be using the latest version of JS, because most devices and browsers would not support it. Instead we'll learn features of [ES6](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_es6.asp), currently the most modern widely-supported version of JS.

## Variable Declaration with `let` and `const`

So far we've created variables with `var`.

```javascript
let kilometers = 10;
let randomDiceRolls = [3, 2, 4, 5];
```

In ES6 we will change the standard way we create variables.

```javascript
let kilometers = 10;
const randomDiceRolls = [3, 2, 4, 1];
```

There are a few guidelines to how we choose to create variables with ES6:

## `let` with Basic Values

If the value we are going to store is a number, string, or boolean, and we expect the value of that variable to be reassigned later, use `let`.

```javascript
let kilometers = 10;
```

## `const` for constant values

If our variable's value won't change, use `const`.

```javascript
const sidesOfDice = 6;
```

#### Reassigning a value with const is an error

```javascript
const pi = 3.14;
pi = 99999; // you will get an error with this line
```

## `const` for arrays and objects

We typically use `const` for arrays and objects, even if we plan to mutate the values inside them. This is because arrays and objects \(and other variable-size data types over than strings\) are known as ["mutable" data types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Mutable), whose variable values are actually "pointers" to "memory addresses" that store the variable-size data type. When we modify arrays and objects, the contents at their addresses may change, but the addresses and pointers themselves do not change, thus `const` is appropriate for var declarations.

### Reference vs. Value Variables

```javascript
const diceRolls = [3, 4, 1, 6, 1];
```

People often ask if the values in an array must be constant if we use `const`. The answer is no, because the address of the array should never change for the lifetime of the variable, but the values inside the array may.

#### Altering values _inside_ an array works fine with const

```javascript
const diceRolls = [4, 2, 1, 4];
// the following affects values *inside* array, not address of array itself
diceRolls.push(5);
```

#### Altering values _of the variable_ will cause an error

```javascript
const diceRolls = [4, 2, 1, 4];
diceRolls = [5]; // this will cause an error
```

This is also related to why you cannot compare two arrays \(or objects\) directly with `===`. The 2 arrays being compared live at different addresses in memory, and by default it is the memory addresses being compared, not the values at those addresses.

```javascript
[1, 2, 3] === [1, 2, 3]; // this boolean statement will not be true
```

## Block Scope

Variables we define in "blocks" like an if statement will not be available anymore when we use `let` and `const`. `var` in ES5 uses "function scope", which makes variables declared with `var` accessible anywhere within a given function.

#### Old Way \(Function Scope\)

```javascript
var myFunc = function () {
  if (diceRoll === 6) {
    var win = true;
  }
  console.log(win); // this will be true
}
```

#### New Way \(Block Scope\)

```javascript
var myFunc = function () {
  if (diceRoll === 6) {
    let win = true;
  }
  // this will error. win variable doesn't
  // exist here, outside the if statement
  console.log(win);
}
```

Block scope refers to JavaScript **blocks**, which are lines of code within curly braces `{}`. These typically include if, \(and else if, etc.\), loops and switch statements. `let` and `const` variables declared in a block will not exist outside the block.

## Arrow Functions

We'll change the default way we define functions in JavaScript.

### Old Way

```javascript
let rollDice = function () {
  // random number stuff
};
```

### New Way

```javascript
const rollDice = () => {
  // random number stuff
};
```

There are a few subtle differences between these two syntaxes, but for all of our material we won't notice a difference. It's just shorter to write.

We also always use `const` when defining a function.

## Template Literals

### Old Way

```javascript
let output = `you rolled ${diceRoll}. nice job!`;
```

### New Way

```javascript
let output = `you rolled ${diceRoll}. nice job!`;
```

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Note:**

The naming of the JavaScript versions are confusing- see more [here](https://flaviocopes.com/ecmascript/) if you want to know the details.

The versions of JavaScript are tied to individual features of that version. You can see a matrix of the version and it's support in each popular platform [here](https://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/) for ES6 and [here](https://kangax.github.io/compat-table/esnext/) for the latest version.

The engineering decision of which version of JavaScript to select for a given project is always a balance between the demographics of your user base and the cost of supporting an older version of the language.

For example, a cutting edge product like GitHub is more likely to have a user demographic that uses the latest version of JavaScript vs. a government service website or broad consumer site like Lazada or Amazon.
{% endhint %}

## Exercises

### `let` & `const`

Open up the dev tools console in Chrome. Follow the `const` examples above to get the error. What does the error message say?

Go back to an old piece of code you've written. Change a few of the variable declarations to `let` and `const`.

### Arrow Functions

Go back to an old piece of code you've written. Change the function definition to use arrow functions in one place that you can easily test.

You can change the definition of the `main` function in any old code from Coding Basics.

### Template Literals

Change one string output where you used plus sign and change it to a template literal.

