# 5.3.2: Babel

Another powerful feature of Webpack is that we can uniformly transform our JavaScript code according to a set of rules we specify.

We can add the Babel library in order to transform our JavaScript code.

```text
npm install -D babel-loader @babel/core @babel/preset-env
```

Change the Webpack config file so it looks like this:

```text
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/index.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'script.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },

  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.m?js$/,
        exclude: /(node_modules|bower_components)/,
        use: {
          loader: 'babel-loader',
          options: {
            presets: ['@babel/preset-env']
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }


};
```

Change the src/script.js file so it looks like this:

```text
const component = () => {

  // create an element
  const element = document.createElement('h1');

  // set the contents
  element.innerHTML = 'Hello!'

  // return the element
  return element;
}

document.body.appendChild(component());
```

Run Webpack:

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

### `dist/script.js`

Look in the generated script file. Babel has made some changes to this file so that it is more browser compatible. `const` has changed to `var`.

### Presets

**@babel/preset-env**

The settings that determine the behaviour of the transformations that Babel runs is set by the `presets` key in the Webpack config. The presets we have were installed as a package when we installed Babel.

See more about [preset-env here.](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env)

### Browserlist

Part of the system of specifying what kind of code we want to run is a list of all browsers and what syntax they all support. This list is compiled and mantained by a library called Browserlist.

#### Targets

Browserlist defines what are called targets. These can be individual browser's versions, or a generalized range. If no setting are set, `@babel/preset-env` defaults to Browserlist's defaults: a set of wide-usage browsers defined by this setting:

```text
> 0.5%, last 2 versions, Firefox ESR, not dead
```

These specifications refer to: 99.5% of all browsers according to their statistics, the last two versions of all browsers, Firefox, and any browser that is "not dead".

Note that this setting is not in our code anywhere, it's just what you get if nothing else is set.

See more about [Browserlist's specifications here.](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist)

### Polyfill

If your set of JavaScript needs more transformation than simply changing `const` to `var`, then it may need polyfills to support other types of code.

For example, if your code uses promises and you want that code to run on browsers that don't support promise syntax, you can tell Babel to transform that code into ES5 compatible JavaScript.

First we need to install a polyfill library.

`core-js` covers all the syntax in ES6 \(and later versions\) that are not in ES5.

```text
npm install core-js
```

Import `core-js` at the top of the file. Babel will know how to take the library and transform your code.

Let's take this simple example of using a promise with setTimeout:

```text
import "core-js";

const setDelay = (delay) => {
  console.log(`delaying: ${delay}`);

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    setTimeout(() => resolve(delay), delay);
  });
};

const result = setDelay(randomNumber());

result.then((number) => {
  console.log('all done');
  console.log(number);
});
```

 Run Webpack:

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

### `dist/script.js`

Look in the generated script file. We have transformed a 16 line file into 10,000 lines. `core-js` added all of the necessary libraries that fake having promises as part of the JavaScript language.

To see a formatted version of this output file, install the [Beautify plugin for VSCode.](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HookyQR.beautify)

