# 1.POCE.9: Bootstrap Columns

## Setup

1. Clone [RA's Bootstrap starter code](https://github.com/rocketacademy/basic-bootstrap-bootcamp.git)
2. We should be able to use Bootstrap CSS classes for almost everything. We should only need to write custom CSS in Exercise 2, to change background colours. 
3. Refer to the Bootstrap documentation [here](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/getting-started/introduction/). Note we are using Bootstrap version 4.

## Exercise 1 - Base Columns

### Instructions

1. Create a set of 3 Bootstrap columns.
2. Put the following 3 paragraphs of text from [cat ipsum](http://www.catipsum.com/index.php) into the 3 columns respectively.

### Text

1. Purrrrrr this human feeds me, i should be a god sun bathe, for hack up furballs. Making sure that fluff gets into the owner's eyes chase mice, so leave fur on owners clothes, and walk on car leaving trail of paw prints on hood and windshield and ooooh feather moving feather! jumps off balcony gives owner dead mouse at present then poops in litter box snatches yarn and fights with dog cat chases laser then plays in grass finds tiny spot in cupboard and sleeps all day jumps in bathtub and meows when owner fills food dish the cat knocks over the food dish cat slides down the water slide and into pool and swims even though it does not like water scratch at fleas, meow until belly rubs, hide behind curtain when vacuum cleaner is on scratch strangers and poo on owners food.
2. Lounge in doorway russian blue walk on keyboard warm up laptop with butt lick butt fart rainbows until owner yells pee in litter box hiss at cats or ooh, are those your $250 dollar sandals? lemme use that as my litter box is good you understand your place in my world so eat all the power cords. Kitty poochy this is the day . Sleep everywhere, but not in my bed hey! you there, with the hands. Who's the baby chase after silly colored fish toys around the house. Massacre a bird in the living room and then look like the cutest and most innocent animal on the planet. You have cat to be kitten me right meow i is not fat, i is fluffy. Licks paws.efuse to leave cardboard box missing until dinner time.
3. Meow to be let in hide from vacuum cleaner. Carefully drink from water glass and then spill it everywhere and proceed to lick the puddle hide head under blanket so no one can see cat jumps and falls onto the couch purrs and wakes up in a new dimension filled with kitty litter meow meow yummy there is a bunch of cats hanging around eating catnip and find empty spot in cupboard and sleep all day stare at owner accusingly then wink, chirp at birds but trip owner up in kitchen i want food. Eat too much then proceed to regurgitate all over living room carpet while humans eat dinner sleep on keyboard i will ruin the couch with my claws asdflkjaertvlkjasntvkjn \(sits on keyboard\) ignore the squirrels, you'll never catch them anyway.

## Exercise 2 - Mobile Collapse

1. Add custom CSS classes with different background colours to each column so that each column is more recognisable.
2. Update column proportions such that when the screen is tablet-size or larger, the centre column should be twice as large as the others.
3. Add mobile-first styling to the columns. In mobile view the columns should stack vertically.

## Exercise 3 - Full Responsive

1. Add a laptop layout to this design and rearrange the columns by adding more HTML.
2. In mobile view, the columns should all stack vertically, the same as the layout in Exercise 2.
3. In tablet view the 1st and 2nd columns should stack vertically and take up half the space. The 3rd column should take up the other half of the space.

