# 3.ICE.2: Bigfoot EJS

## Base

Create an EJS template for each route in [3.ICE.1: Bigfoot](3.ice.1-bigfoot.md).

### EJS Setup

Install the view library, create the view folder and set the configs [as described in 3.3](../3.2-ejs/).

### Index Page

Create a base index page \(`http://localhost:3004/`\), that lists all the sightings.

Use link tags `<a>` to link these pages together.

For a list of sightings, as below, the first object in the list:

```javascript
{
  "sightings": [
    {
      "YEAR": "1989",
      ...
```

Should produce the following link:

```markup
<a href="/sightings/0">sighting 0</a>
```

EJS should create the proper URL path as well as the text of the link.

Each sighting page \(The HTML page at `http://localhost:3004/sightings/0`\) should link back to the list page.

{% hint style="warning" %}
A URL path that consists only of a `/` character is, just like the unix naming, referred to as the **root path**.

In a URL path there are no `.` and `..` and `~` special path characters, but there are absolute and relative paths.

```markup
<a href="apples">click me</a>
<a href="/apples">click me</a>
```

The first example could go to different places, depending on the URL of the current page.

The second example will always go to `/apple` because it is an **absolute** URL path.
{% endhint %}

## Comfortable

Create a page `http://localhost:3004/years` with a list of year links:

```markup
<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="/year-sighting/1989">1989</a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="/year-sighting/1990">1990</a>
  </li>
  ...
</ul>
```

Each year page should link back to the year list page.

## More Comfortable

### Sort By

On the main list page, create a series of links for each parameter in the sighting \(except for the large text parameter, "OBSERVED"\).

Set the URL of the link to have a query parameter that sets _the parameter to sort the list_ by.

```markup
<a href="/?sortBy=year">sort by year</a>
```

Use this query parameter to sort in ascending order the `sortBy` parameter specified. In the example above, when the user clicks on the link they will see a page with the list of sightings ordered by year in ascending order.

This link would show a list of sightings sorted by state:

```markup
<a href="/?sortBy=state">sort by state</a>
```

