# 3.ICE.2: Bigfoot EJS

For each route specified in the [previous exercise,](3.ice.1-bigfoot.md) create an EJS HTML file for it.

{% hint style="success" %}
Instead of:

```text
node index.js
```

Locally install [nodemon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon) so that you don't have to start and stop the server every time your files change.

```text
npm i -D nodemon
```

This makes the command available in your local repository.  
  
Running:

```text
npx nodemon index.js
```

means that your server will reset any time a file gets saved.

\`\`[`npx`](https://medium.com/@maybekatz/introducing-npx-an-npm-package-runner-55f7d4bd282b) is an npm package runner that makes it convenient to execute locally-installed packages.
{% endhint %}

### index

Create a base index page \(`http://localhost:3004/`\), that lists all the sightings.

Use link tags `<a>` to link these pages together.

For a list of sightings, as below, the first object in the list:

```text
{
    "sightings: [
    
        {
            "YEAR" : "1989",
            ...
```

Should produce the following link:

```text
<a href="/sightings/0">sighting 0</a>
```

EJS should create the proper URL path as well as the text of the link.

Each sighting page \(The HTML page at `http://localhost:3004/sightings/0`\) should link back to the list page.

{% hint style="warning" %}
A URL path that consists only of a `/` character is, just like the unix naming, referred to as the **root path**.

In a URL path there are no `.` and `..` and `~` special path characters, but there are absolute and relative paths.

```text
<a href="apples">click me</a>
<a href="/apples">click me</a>
```

The first example could go to different places, depending on the URL of the current page.

The second example will always go to `/apple` because it is an **absolute** URL path.
{% endhint %}

## Comfortable

Create a page `http://localhost:3004/years` with a list of year links:

```text
<ul>
    <li>
        <a href="/year-sighting/1989">1989</a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="/year-sighting/1990">1990</a>
    </li>
    ...    
```

Each year page should link back to the year list page.

## More Comfortable

### Sort By

On the main list page, create a series of links for each parameter in the sighting \(except for the large text parameter, "OBSERVED"\).

Set the URL of the button to have a query parameter that sets _the parameter to sort the list_ by.

```text
<a href="/?sortby=year">sort by year</a>
```

Use this query parameter to sort in ascending order  the `sortby` parameter specified. In the example above, when the user clicks on the link they will see a page with the list of sightings ordered by year in ascending order.

This link would show a list of sightings sorted by state:

```text
<a href="/?sortby=state">sort by state</a>
```

