# 3.6.2: User Auth

Everyone understand what user login does. We'll talk about how to implement it in our app, using a `users` table and cookies.

```text
CREATE TABLE users ( id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
                 name TEXT,
                 password TEXT);
```

The logic for user login is:

The user registers. They give us a password and a unique identifier, like an email or username. \(Only one person in the system can have this identifier\).

The user signs in. They enter their unique identifier and their password. The server receives the identifier and the password. If both things are in the system then the user is who they say they are.

In our web app, the flow will go like this:

1. User makes a GET request to render a register form.
2. The user fills out the register form and submits it.
3. The web app saves their email and password.
4. \(Some time in the future\) the user makes a GET request to a sign in form.
5. The user fills out the form with the same info they registered with and submits it.
6. The web app receives the request and checks in the database to see if it has matching info.
7. If the info matches, send back a cookie to the user.
8. The browser stores this "log in" cookie.
9. \(Some time in the future\) the user makes a request to a login-only page like`/account`
10. The web app receives the request and evaluates the cookie to see if the requesting user is allowed access to the page.
11. If the user is not allowed, send back a status 403.
12. If the user is allowed, render the page.



