# 6.1.3: Webpack with Babel

## Introduction

Another powerful feature of Webpack is to transform JS code according to a set of rules. In this module we will be using Babel to transform JS from ES6 to ES5 syntax. This enables us to write JS using the latest ES6 syntax, but deploy our code in the more widely-compatible ES5 syntax.

## Webpack Babel Example

### Initialise Project Folder

Create new folder and install Webpack.

```text
mkdir webpack-babel-demo
cd webpack-babel-demo
npm init -y
npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-cli
```

Install the Babel library to transform our JS code from ES6 to ES5.

```text
npm install -D babel-loader @babel/core @babel/preset-env
```

Create folders and files that Webpack will use for compilation.

```text
mkdir src dist
touch src/script.js
touch dist/index.html
```

#### src/script.js

Populate `script.js` with the below code.

```javascript
const component = () => {
  // create an element
  const element = document.createElement('h1');

  // set the contents
  element.innerHTML = 'Hello!';

  // return the element
  return element;
};

document.body.appendChild(component());
```

#### dist/index.html

Populate an `index.html` file that will load Webpack's transformed `script.js`.

```markup
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Getting Started</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Configure Webpack

#### webpack.config.js

Create a file that tells Webpack what to transform and how. Notice this version of the Webpack config invokes Babel.

```javascript
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/script.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'script.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.m?js$/, // regex to see which files to run babel on
        use: {
          loader: 'babel-loader',
          options: {
            presets: ['@babel/preset-env'],
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Run Webpack

Transform `src/script.js` into `dist/script.js`.

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

### Compare Webpack Compilation With and Without Babel

Observe the generated `dist/script.js` file. Let's generate this file without Babel and compare the results.

1. Copy the contents of `dist/script.js` to a new file `dist/script-with-babel.js`.
2. Update our Webpack config to remove Babel. 

#### webpack.config.js

Webpack config without Babel.

```javascript
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/script.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'script.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
};
```

Run Webpack again to generate a `dist/script.js` without Babel.

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

You may notice that in the Babel version of `script.js`, `const` has changed to `var`. What are other differences between the Babel and non-Babel versions of `script.js`?

## Babel Presets

How does Babel know what to change? We installed some libraries that tell Babel what to do.

### **@babel/preset-env**

The `presets` key in the Webpack config determines the transformations that Babel runs. We installed the `@babel/preset-env` package using NPM above. Read more about Babel's `preset-env` preset [here](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env).

### Browserlist

It is helpful to know what code versions are supported by which browsers, to help us determine what code versions we should compile our code to. Browserlist manages list of browsers and what code versions they support.

#### Browserlist Targets

Browserlist defines "**targets"**, which can be specific browser versions or ranges of versions. If we do not specify otherwise, `@babel/preset-env` compiles code for Browserlist's [default targets](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist#queries), a large set of browser versions that support the same version of code.

#### Sample Browserlist Target Specification

The following specification refers to 99.5% of all browsers according to Browserlist statistics, the last two versions of all browsers, Firefox, and any browser that is "not dead". The code that Babel produces will run on this set of browsers.

```text
> 0.5%, last 2 versions, Firefox ESR, not dead
```

Read more about Browserlist's specifications [here](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist).

## Babel Polyfills

A polyfill is like an extension. If our JS needs more transformation than token replacements such as changing `const` to `var`, then it may need **"polyfills"**. For example, if our code uses Promises and we want that code to run on browsers that don't support Promises, we can tell Babel to transform that code into non-Promise syntax. Let's see an example of this.

### Install Polyfill

First, install the polyfill library `core-js`. `core-js` helps Babel transform all ES6 and later syntax to ES5.

```text
npm install -D core-js
```

### Import Polyfill to Invoke It

To tell Babel to use the polyfill, import `core-js` at the top of the Webpack config entry file. This file is `src/script.js` in our examples.

#### src/script.js

In this example, we only import a specific feature of `core-js`, the feature to transform arrow functions to regular JS functions. Babel will turn our arrow function into an ES5 function with all the features of an arrow function, e.g. arrow function scope. Read about the differences between arrow and regular functions [here](https://dmitripavlutin.com/differences-between-arrow-and-regular-functions/).

```javascript
import 'core-js/es/function';
```

### Run Webpack

Before running Webpack, save the previous non-Babel-compiled `dist/script.js` into `dist/script-without-babel.js` for comparison.

```text
cp dist/script.js dist/script-without-babel.js
```

Run Webpack.

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

Observe the generated script file. Babel has made the JS more browser-compatible. The transformed arrow function code is around 700 lines.

### Beautify

Install the [Beautify plugin for VSCode.](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HookyQR.beautify) This will help us read the compiled JS file. Other than arrow functions, what else did Babel change compared to `dist/script-with-babel.js`? Can you recognize the code from `dist/cript-without-babel.js`?

### `core-js` with Promises

Now let's import the entire `core-js` library instead of just the function-transforming feature. 

#### src/script.js

Replace `src/script.js` with the following code that uses a Promise with `setTimeout`.

```javascript
// import the entire core-js library
import 'core-js';

const setDelay = (delay) => {
  console.log(`delaying: ${delay}`);

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    setTimeout(() => resolve(delay), delay);
  });
};

const result = setDelay(randomNumber());

result.then((number) => {
  console.log('all done');
  console.log(number);
});
```

Run Webpack.

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

Observe the generated script file. `core-js` added libraries to recreate Promise behaviour without Promises. Read more about `core-js` [here](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js). `core-js` is mentioned several times in `preset-env` docs [here](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env#how-does-it-work).

