# 6.1.3: Babel

Another powerful feature of Webpack is that, using a library, we can uniformly transform our JavaScript code according to a set of rules we specify.

## Webpack Babel Example

Create a directory and install Webpack

```text
mkdir webpack-babel-demo
cd webpack-babel-demo
npm init -y
npm install webpack webpack-cli --save-dev
```

Create some files to work with:

```text
mkdir src dist
touch src/script.js
touch dist/index.html
```

#### src/script.js

```js
const component = () => {
  // create an element
  const element = document.createElement('h1');

  // set the contents
  element.innerHTML = 'Hello!';

  // return the element
  return element;
};

document.body.appendChild(component());
```

#### dist/index.html

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Getting Started</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### webpack.config.js

```js
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/script.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'script.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
};
```

### Running Webpack

When we run `webpack` it will transform our `script.js` into `script.js` in the `dist` directory.

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

Look inside the `dist/script.js` to see the transformed JavaScript file. Note in what ways Webpack has transformed the file. Note that the comments are gone from the output file.

Try to paste in some other JavaScript into the source file and see what changes.

### Running `index.html`

Double click on the `index.html file` to open it in the browser \(without a file server\).

## Adding Babel

We can add the Babel library in order to further transform our JavaScript code.

```text
npm install -D babel-loader @babel/core @babel/preset-env
```

Change the Webpack config file so it looks like this:

```javascript
const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: './src/script.js',
  output: {
    filename: 'script.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.m?js$/, // regex to see which files to run babel on
        use: {
          loader: 'babel-loader',
          options: {
            presets: ['@babel/preset-env'],
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

### Webpack + Babel

Before running the setup, copy the contents of `dist/script.js` to a new file.

```text
cp dist/script.js dist/script.1.js
```

Run Webpack:

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

### `dist/script.js`

Look in the generated script file. Babel has made some changes to this file so that it is more browser compatible. `const` has changed to `var`.

What else did Babel change in the file compared to `dist/script.1.js`?

## Presets

How does Babel know what to change? We installed some libraries that are telling it what to do.

**@babel/preset-env**

The settings that determine the behaviour of the transformations that Babel runs is set by the `presets` key in the Webpack config. The presets we have were installed as a package when we installed Babel.

See more about [preset-env here.](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env)

### Browserlist

Part of the system of specifying what kind of code we want to run is a list of all browsers and what syntax they all support. This list is compiled and maintained by a library called Browserlist.

#### Targets

Browserlist defines what are called _**targets**_. These can be individual browser's versions, or a generalized range. If no setting are set, `@babel/preset-env` defaults to Browserlist's [defaults](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist#queries): a set of wide-usage browsers defined by this setting:

```text
> 0.5%, last 2 versions, Firefox ESR, not dead
```

These specifications refer to: 99.5% of all browsers according to their statistics, the last two versions of all browsers, Firefox, and any browser that is "not dead". The code that Babel produces will run on this set of browsers.

Note that this setting is not in our code anywhere, it's just what you get if nothing else is set.

See more about [Browserlist's specifications here.](https://github.com/browserslist/browserslist)

## Polyfill

If your set of JavaScript needs more transformation than simply changing `const` to `var`, then it may need polyfills to support other types of code.

For example, if your code uses promises and you want that code to run on browsers that don't support promise syntax, you can tell Babel to transform that code into ES5 compatible JavaScript.

First we need to install a polyfill library.

`core-js` covers all the syntax in ES6 \(and later versions\) that are not in ES5.

```text
npm install -D core-js
```

Import `core-js` at the top of the file. Babel will know how to take the library and transform your code.

In order for Babel to know that it has to transform your code, add an `import` to the file mentioned as the Webpack config entry file \(`src/script.js`\). You can specify core-js code for the arrow function we defined. Babel will turn our arrow function into an ES5 function with all the features of an arrow function - arrow function scope, etc. Take a look at the differences [here](https://dmitripavlutin.com/differences-between-arrow-and-regular-functions/). `core-js` includes all the code to make our output function behave like an arrow function.

#### src/script.js

```js
import 'core-js/es/function';
```

Before you run webpack, save the last version of the output `dist/script.js` file for comparison.

```text
cp dist/script.js dist/script.2.js
```

Run Webpack:

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

### `dist/script.js`

Look in the generated script file. Babel has made some changes to this file so that it is more browser compatible. The added arrow function code is around 700 lines.

### Beautify

Install the [Beautify plugin for VSCode.](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HookyQR.beautify) This will allow you to read the file.

What else did Babel change in the file compared to `dist/script.2.js`? Can you recognize the code from the original `script.js`? \(It is at the bottom of the file\).

### `core-js` with promises

Let's take this simple example of using a promise with setTimeout:

```js
// import the entire core-js library
import 'core-js';

const setDelay = (delay) => {
  console.log(`delaying: ${delay}`);

  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    setTimeout(() => resolve(delay), delay);
  });
};

const result = setDelay(randomNumber());

result.then((number) => {
  console.log('all done');
  console.log(number);
});
```

Run Webpack:

```text
npx webpack --mode=production
```

### `dist/script.js`

Look in the generated script file. `core-js` added all of the necessary libraries that fake having promises as part of the JavaScript language.

See more about [core-js here.](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js) In preset/env [core-js is mentioned several times.](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-env#how-does-it-work)
