# 1.1.2: Basic CSS

## 1.1.2: Basic CSS

We'll be using CSS to create the layout of web pages that we are going to create. Before we can learn about layout, which is a complex CSS topic, we need to cover the basics of CSS, applying styles to an element or set of elements to do basic things like change colors and constrain sizes.

## What is CSS

Built on top of HTML in order to add more visual control and complexity, CSS specifies _styles_ on an HTML element or set of elements. The CSS code specifies visual properties that not related to the _sematic_ content of an HTML page- that is, CSS will not be used to change anything about the content or meaning of the content.

In practice there are 3 uses for CSS:

**1. Logic**

CSS can induce behaviours that represent some logic inside the application, such as hiding or showing cards, flipping elements 90 degrees, etc. We can use JavaScript to manipulate CSS as part of the logic of an app.

**2. Colors, fonts, element styling.**

Basic CSS is used to change the visual properties of an element, such and changing a font, setting a background image, or giving a button rounded corners.

**3. Layout**

When you see a website that has content that is divided up into different visual sections, this is specified by CSS. Creating this behaviour is where most of the developer's effort is focused when writing CSS, and is the most tricky. The fundamental reason is because CSS was not originally intended to be used to structure website layout design, and some aspects of CSS behaviour can work against this goal. The focus of the CSS content in this course will be about being able to create these website layouts.

## Dev Tools

The Chrome Dev Tools are the place where CSS work actually happens. When attempting any CSS task the elements tab is the main tool to debug and fine-tune the CSS code.



## Exercise

There are 44 separate exercises for Free Code Camp's basic CSS.

### Part 1

Exercises 1-22

### Part 2

Exercises 23-36 \(out of 44\)

Skip the last 8 exercises.

#### Free Code Camp Basic CSS

{% embed url="https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-css/" caption="" %}

### HTML/CSS Exercise 1: Tribute Page

Note: don't do user story \#8 \(Which will be covered later\).

{% embed url="https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/responsive-web-design-projects/build-a-tribute-page" caption="" %}

