# 2.ICE.5: JSON Cards

## Introduction

We will practise reading and writing from JSON files by creating a card game that stores its game state in a local JSON file. 

## Setup

1. Clone the[ base starter code](https://github.com/rocketacademy/base-node-bootcamp).
2. Copy the [hard-coded card deck array from Coding Basics](https://basics.rocketacademy.co/10-javascript-objects/10.1-javascript-objects#hard-coded-card-deck) into `index.js`.
3. Create an empty JSON file `data.json` with an empty JSON object in it `{}`.
4. Create a `jsonFileStorage.js` file in the repo with `add`, `read`, and `write` code from [Module 2.13.1](../2.13-json/2.13.1-json-file-storage-module-add-read-write.md). We will use that code in this exercise.

## Base

### Write New Card Deck

Update `index.js` to perform the following.

1. When a user passes the `create` parameter to our app, use the `add` function from `jsonFileStorage` to save the card deck to `data.json` with key `cardDeck`.
2. Once run, open `data.json` to verify that we saved the card deck to it.

```text
node index.js create
```

### Read Cards From Deck

1. When a user passes the `read` parameter to our app, log the card deck in `data.json` by calling the `read` function from `jsonFileStorage`.

```text
node index.js read
```

### Limitations with Current `jsonFileStorage` Module 

1. The `jsonFileStorage` `read` function can't help us "deal" cards because it can only `console.log` card values but not remove cards from the deck.
2. We will overcome this by writing a custom function similar to `add`, except instead of adding a key-value pair to `data.json`, we will read the deck, remove a card from the deck, log the card, and write the modified deck back to `data.json`.
3. Whenever we need to modify data in `data.json` in a new way in the following exercises, we will create a new custom function based on the `modifyJsonFile` function below, replacing the TODO comment with custom logic.
   1. For now, we will store these custom functions in `index.js` because we reserve `jsonFileStorage` for generic JSON functions that are not application-specific.
   2. You may notice we repeat much reading and writing code in each custom function, when the only code that differs between them is the TODO section.
   3. We will learn how to provide custom app logic to generic JSON functions to re-use the common reading and writing code in Modules [2.13.2](../2.13-json/2.13.2-json-file-storage-module-passing-callbacks.md) and [2.13.3](../2.13-json/2.13.3-json-file-storage-module-summary.md).

```javascript
const modifyJsonFile = (filename) => {

  const handleFileRead = (readErr, contentStr) => {
    if (readErr) {
      console.log('Reading error', readErr);
    }

    // Convert data from string to Object
    const contentObj = JSON.parse(contentStr);

    // TODO: Modify the data however we would like

    // Convert data from Object to string
    const updatedContentStr = JSON.stringify(contentObj);

    // Write updated data to file
    writeFile(filename, updatedContentStr, (writeErr) => {
      if (writeErr) {
        console.log('writing error', writeErr);
      }
    });
  };

  // Read original data from file
  readFile(filename, 'utf-8', handleFileRead);
};
```

### Shuffle Existing Card Deck

1. Verify `data.json` contains the card deck from the Write New Card Deck exercise above.
2. Update `index.js` such that when a user provides the `shuffle` parameter to our app, read the existing card deck from `data.json`, shuffle it in our app, and write the shuffled version back to `data.json`. Feel free to use [card shuffling logic from Coding Basics](https://basics.rocketacademy.co/10-javascript-objects/10.1-javascript-objects#card-shuffling).
3. Open `data.json` to confirm that we've shuffled the cards. 

```text
node index.js shuffle
```

### Deal Cards from Deck

1. Verify `data.json` contains the shuffled card deck from the previous exercise.
2. Update `index.js` such that when a user passes the `deal` parameter to our app, move 2 cards from the card deck in `data.json` to a `currentHand` key whose value is an array in `data.json`.
3. Print the 2 drawn cards to the console.
4. Open `data.json` to confirm that we moved 2 cards from `cardDeck` to `currentHand`. 

```text
node index.js deal
```

## Comfortable

### High Card

1. Update `index.js` such that when a user passes the `high-card` parameter to our app, they play a game of High Card.
2. To play High Card, deal 2 cards from the card deck, 1 for the human and computer players respectively. Declare the winner based on the highest card.

#### Sample Output

```text
node index.js high-card
Human: 9 of hearts
Computer: 2 of spades
Human wins!
```

### Blackjack

Incorporate Blackjack logic into the game. Evaluate the cards based on the rules of Blackjack. \(Without the logic of adding cards to the hand\). You can reuse logic from previous code.

## More Comfortable

### Advanced Blackjack

Implement the rest of a Blackjack game \(in this order\):

1. Allow the player to hit
2. Implement the dealer behaviour. This shouldn't need a separate key in `data.json`.
3. Implement splits

