# 2.ICE.3: Disk Altering

## Setup

Start with the [base Node repo](https://github.com/rocketacademy/base-node-bootcamp).

## JavaScript Processor

Read in a JavaScript file. Change all the comments from `//` style to `/* */`. Keep them on the same line.

#### script.js

```javascript
// Add 2 numbers and return the result
const add = (a, b) => {
  return a + b;
};
```

#### Sample Command

```text
node index.js script.js
```

#### Subsequent script.js

```javascript
/* a function that adds two numbers together */
const add = (a, b) => {
  return a + b;
};
```

## Comfortable

### HTML Generator

```text
node html.js default.html
```

1. Create a command line program `html.js` that generates an HTML file based on the [Bootstrap getting started template](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.5/getting-started/introduction/#starter-template).
2. The 1st command line parameter to `html.js` is the name of the target HTML file.
3. Have an `h1` inside the HTML body that says "hello". We will add onto this script in the following exercises.

### Variable Number of Images in HTML

1. Update `html.js` to accept a number of `img` tags \(with placeholder images\) to render in the HTML body.
2. The 2nd command line parameter to `html.js` will be the number of images to render.
3. [Lorem Picsum](https://picsum.photos/) is an image generator we can use to insert placeholder images in our `img` tags.
4. Output the new HTML in the target file specified by the 1st command line param. We used `images.html` as a placeholder below so we do not need to overwrite `default.html` we generated in the previous exercise.

```text
node html.js images.html 4
```

## More Comfortable

### Photo Gallery

```text
node html.js gallery.html /path/to/photos
```

1. Update `html.js` to accept a path parameter to a folder that contains a set of photos.
2. Use `fs` to copy each of the image files into the current folder.
3. Insert an `img` tag into the HTML body for each image file with the correct relative path.

