# 5.ICE.2: AJAX

## Introduction

Create an app that renders page elements with AJAX.

### Setup

1. Clone the [`ajax-bootcamp` repo](https://github.com/rocketacademy/ajax-bootcamp)
2. Install NPM packages with `npm i`
3. Update config/config.js with our Unix username
4. Create a Postgres DB with the DB name in config/config.js if we haven't already.
5. Initialise the DB with Sequelize migrate and seed commands
6. Run the app and test the `/items` route in the browser: [http://localhost:3004/items](http://localhost:3004/items). The starter code contains seed data for items, and a single route `/items`. 

## Base

Create a route at the root \(`/`\) path that renders an HTML page with a button. When a user clicks the button, make an AJAX request to `/items` and use the response data to render an HTML element for each item.

## Comfortable

1. Update our frontend code such that the AJAX request to `/items` displays a button for each item.
2. Create a new server route for individual items `/items/:id` that responds with the relevant item's description. We recognise that we may already have item descriptions from our Base implementation above, but this is to practise lazy-loading data where we may not want to retrieve all item data upfront, because doing so would slow down our apps.
3. Update our frontend code such that when a user clicks an item's button, retrieve and render the item's description using an AJAX request.

## More Comfortable

1. Create database migrations, models, and seeds so that items have categories, where each item belongs to 1 category and each category has many items. Run the migrations and seeds.
2. Update the root route and page so that clicking the button renders a list of category buttons \(1 button per category\) instead of items.
3. Create a server route `/categories/:category_id/items` that returns all items for a given category. When a user clicks on a category button, make a request to the relevant route and render a list of items that belongs to that category.

