# 5.ICE.1: Full-Stack Modal

## Introduction

Create a full-stack app that uses front-end JavaScript modals. Create modals with client-side JavaScript and CSS, and refrain from using the Bootstrap Modal component. This is to practise client-side JavaScript and CSS.

## Base

Begin by cloning the [`full-stack-modal-bootcamp` repo](https://github.com/rocketacademy/full-stack-modal-bootcamp). The database is already set up to include `Items`.

Set the app up by running `npm install` and `npx sequelize-cli db:migrate`.

Try the included route here: [http://localhost:3000/items](http://localhost:3000/items)

The database is empty by default, we must add data.

### Fake Data

Seed fake data into the database using the [Faker NPM library](https://github.com/faker-js/faker).

{% hint style="danger" %}
The latest version of [Faker.js (6.6.6)](https://github.com/Marak/faker.js) is not functional. Since then the open source community has put up a replacement. Use the following command to install the working version.&#x20;

```
npm install @faker-js/faker -D
```
{% endhint %}

1. Create a seed file and use `require` syntax to import `faker` into the seed file. `import` won't work because seed files aren't modules.
2. Use the `product` and `productDescription` methods of Faker to insert 50 new records into the database using a loop. Use the `bulkInsert` method like in [Module 4.3: MVC](https://github.com/rocketacademy/bootcamp-docs/blob/master/4-backend-structure/4.2-mvc#less-than-generated\_date-greater-than-seed-data-js).
3. Test the `/items` route again to see the filled-in data.

### Modal

1. Update the app to also render item descriptions.
2. Add CSS to hide descriptions by default.
3. Add a button for each description.
4. Add client-side JavaScript so that button clicks will show the relevant description in a modal.
5. Render a button in each modal to dismiss the modal.

### Modal CSS

From a CSS perspective, a modal is a div with an absolute position. We can show and hide the modal with the `display` CSS property. Center the modal by setting the position with `margin: auto`.

```css
.modal {
  left: 0;
  right: 0;
  margin: 0 auto;
}
```

## Comfortable

1. When the page renders a modal, position it in the top half of the screen. Use `position: fixed`.
2. Allow the user to open 2 modals at once. The 2nd modal appears in the bottom half of the screen.

## More Comfortable

1. The user can open unlimited modals at once. All modals appear in the top half of the screen.
2. Change the modal CSS to have `overflow: scroll` so the user can still read all modal content.
3. As the user opens more modals, the existing modals resize themselves so that all modals still fit within the top half of the screen.
