# 4.1.1: Try Catch

Throwing and catching errors is not directly tied to the idea of promises or async await, but promises and async await do use the try /catch syntax as part of the control flow of these structures.

Before we implement try/catch with promises we'll see it on its own.

## Try/Catch

Try/catch is actually a fundamental part of the Javascript language \(ES5\). It is another kind of control flow like a function or a conditional.

The reason why it is not included in any earlier material is that it is considered bad practice to use as part of normal logical control flow. catch and throw are usually used as part of control flow where you need to exit out of several layers of function calls, or if you need a fail-safe to make sure that errors happening deeper in your program don't cause the application to crash, or when you need to ensure that a library or other code that you didn't write doesn't cause your application to crash.

It would be considered bad practice to use a try catch when you could have used a conditional instead.

### Exceptions

`throw` is a statement that ends the execution of the program at that point. It creates an "exception" which is the conceptual idea that you want to let some higher level of your program know about an error.

Left unchecked, an exception simply ends a program.

#### index.js

```javascript
console.log('about to throw!');
throw 'throwed';
console.log('we threw');
```

Run the program:

```text
node index.js
```

Notice how the output is different than if we had just run normal javascript or even if we just had a syntax error.

```text
$ node hoo.js
about to throw

/Users/akira/code/swe1/try-4.3.1/index.js:2
throw "throwed";
^
throwed
(Use `node --trace-uncaught ...` to show where the exception was thrown)
```

It doesn't matter if the throw is several levels into a set of function calls, it will still end the execution of the entire program:

#### index.js

```javascript
const yell = (word) => {
  say(word.toUpperCase());
};

console.log('define say');

const say = (word) => {
  console.log('about to throw');
  throw 'throwed';
  console.log('we threw');

  // normal part of say function
  console.log(word);
};

yell('hello world');
```

### Try/Catch

`throw` will always end the execution of the entire program at that line, except for one case: `catch`.

```javascript
try {
  throw 'this is an error';
} catch (error) {
  console.log(error);
}
```

This pattern is mostly used when we are writing a part of our application several function call levels deep. Instead of returning false up several levels we can `throw` and return control of the application back to our `catch` statement.

This example calls a theoretical function that will kick off a series of function calls:

```javascript
try {
  myApp(); // myApp calls dbQuery calls innerQuery calls outputFormat
  // if there is an error, throw and go all the way back up here
} catch (error) {
  console.log(error);
}
```

