# 1.ICE.2 - Timeout / High Card Redux

## Timeout

Read this code. What order is the the console.logs going to be printed in?

```js
const wowParagraph = document.createElement('p');
document.body.appendChild(wowParagraph);

console.log('st - 1');

const doLater = () => {
  console.log('st - 2');
  wowParagraph.innerText = `cool! ${Math.random()}`;
};

console.log('st - 3');

const myNewMain = (event) => {
  console.log('st - 4');

  setTimeout(doLater, 1000);
};
console.log('st - 5');

wowParagraph.addEventListener('click', myNewMain);
console.log('st - 6');
```

## High Card

## Code Review - Individual

### 1\) Clone Partner's Code

You'll be paired up so that you can exchange the links for your repos via Slack. Remember that the forked repo is the one that is under your GitHub account, not Rocket Academy's.

**If you have forked the repo, but you don't have the latest code on GitHub** take a moment now to do a `git push`. Let your partner know you're updating the repo.

Run a `git clone <repo-url> <new-folder-name>` to get a copy of your partner's code.

_Note: you need to rename the folder when you clone if you already have a folder named after the repo where you're making the clone._

### 2\) Run Partner's Code

Open the code in the browser and test it. What does it do? If you're not sure what it does look inside the `script.js` to see.

### 3\) Read Partner's Code

Read the code.

* How does it work?
* Does it have any obvious errors?
* Does it implement something that you were trying to do?
* Does it implement a feature that you haven't started yet? How does the code work?

### 4\) Play with Partner's Code

It may be helpful to make changes to the code to help you understand it better. Write some `console.log` that would help you figure out what the code does. Break the code in a certain way to prove how it works or doesn't work.

### 5\) Breakout and Discuss

We'll put you in breakout rooms so you can discuss what you saw.

## Code Review - Pairing

You'll be working on your SPS projects together as pairs one at a time. The goal of this pairing should be to get working versions for each person.

**The driver will be the person who is \*not\* working on their own code.**

Try to go through the code and get to the basic working version, or to code that is working without errors.

Send the new, fixed version of the file to your pair \(it's their project\) via a Slack message attachment.

Switch to work on the other person's code.

_Note that if you are working on the other person's code you can't commit or update GitHub because of the way the repos are setup._

If you are both done with all parts of the game, implement the following new features in one of the games together.
