# 2.3: Modules

## Module Definition

Modules define code that can be logically grouped together and imported from other files. Modules are helpful for code decomposition where groups of helper functions can be put together in a module to abstract complexity from our primary business logic. Modules are also helpful for independent development and testing of features that we may not want to intermingle with other application logic yet.

## Basic Examples

For example, we can create an `addition` module with an `add` function that gets imported and used in `index.js`.

{% hint style="info" %}
Either named ES6 arrow functions or ES5 function syntax can be used for exports. [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39582318/export-const-arrow-function-or-basic-function](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39582318/export-const-arrow-function-or-basic-function)
{% endhint %}

**addition.js**

```javascript
export function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

**index.js**

```javascript
import { add } from './addition.js';

console.log(add(2, 2));
```

Here's an example of an `imperialConversion` module that gets imported and used in `index.js`.

**imperialConversion.js**

```javascript
export function kilometersToMiles(kilometers) {
  // ...
}

export function celciusToFahrenheit(temperatureCelcius) {
  // ...
}

export function kilogramsToPounds(kilograms) {
  // ...
}
```

**index.js**

```javascript
import {
  kilometersToMiles,
  celciusToFahrenheit,
  kilgramsToPounds,
} from './addition.js';

console.log(kilometersToMiles(3));
console.log(celciusToFahrenheit(3));
console.log(kilogramsToPounds(3));
```

## Module Scope

Unlike imports with `<script>` tags in HTML, each module can only access variables that are explicitly imported or defined in itself. For example, the variable `PI` in the `area` module is not accessible in `index.js` because `PI` is not explicitly imported or defined in `index.js`.

**area.js**

```javascript
const PI = 3.14;
export function circleArea(r) {
  return PI * (r * r);
}
```

**index.js**

```javascript
import { circleArea } from './area.js';

console.log(circleArea(2)); // PI is being used *inside* this function
console.log(PI); // you will get an error. The variable is not accessible.
```

## Named vs Default Exports

There are 2 ways of exporting variables from a module: named and default.

### Named Exports

Named exports export specific, named variables from a given module. Modules can export 0 or more named exports.

#### Export selected variables from a module

Not everything in a module needs to be exported. Using named exports, we can use the `export` statement to explicitly export 1 or more variables. For example, in the `tripCost` module, `calculateTax` is a helper function used internally, and `calculateBill` is an exported function.

**tripCost.js**

```javascript
const GST = 0.8;

function calculateTax(subTotal) {
  return subTotal * GST;
}

export function calculateBill(items) {
  let total = 0;

  for (let i = 0; i < items.length; i += 1) {
    total += items[i];
  }
  total += calculateTax(total);

  return total;
}
```

### Default Exports

Each module can only have 1 default export, and default exports do not need to be imported with any specific name. Default exports are typically used when a module only needs to export 1 thing. In all other situations, generally we prefer named exports for clarity of what is being exported and imported. 

```javascript
export default function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

```javascript
// For default exports, the imported variable's name does not need to
// match the exported variable's name in the source module.
// For example, we could replace the following "add" with "foo".
import add from './maths.js';
```

## Less Common Patterns

### Export Values

Typically we export functions, and not values, unless they are constant values used across an application.

```javascript
export const fruits = ['banana', 'payaya'];
```

### Import All

If there are a lot of named exports to import, sometimes we can use `*` to import all exports from a given module. This is not recommended because it reduces clarity on what is being imported and what specific imported variables we plan to use.

**maths.js**

```javascript
export function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

export function subtract(a, b) {
  return a - b;
}
```

**index.js**

```javascript
import * as maths from './maths.js';

// `add` and `subtract` functions are imported as "attributes" of `math`.
console.log(maths.add(1, 1)); // 2
```

{% hint style="warning" %}
There is another common multi-file syntax in Node.js, `require`. For RA's default Node.js setup we will only use import. In order to use import with Node.js this key/value must be added to the `package.json`: `"type":"module"`- this key/value has already been added to all relevant repos.
{% endhint %}

## Exercise

Extract the [CSS color conversion](https://github.com/rocketacademy/css-conversions-swe1) function into it's own module.

Run the examples above by adding the modules above.

