# 5.ICE.1: Full Stack Modal

Create a full-stack app that uses front-end JavaScript modals. Create modals with client-side JavaScript and CSS, and refrain from using the Bootstrap Modal component. This is to practise client-side JavaScript and CSS.

Begin by cloning the [modal repo](https://github.com/rocketacademy/full-stack-modal-swe1).

This repo is already setup for items.

## Fake Data

Put some fake data into the database using [faker](https://github.com/Marak/Faker.js) npm package.

Create a seed file and require the package in the file. \(Import won't work\). Use the `product` and `productDescription` methods of faker to insert 50 new records into the database using a loop.

Use the `bulkInsert` method described in the [MVC module.](../../4-back-end-structure/4.3-mvc.md#less-than-generated_date-greater-than-fake-data-js)

## Modal

Change the app so that the description renders onto the page.

Add CSS so that the description is hidden by default.

Add a button in place of the description \(in place of each description\).

Add JavaScript so that any time a user clicks the button the description shows in a modal.

In the modal is a button to dismiss the modal.

#### Modal CSS

The JavaScript above should affect the modal by changing the `display` property of the element.

A modal \(in a CSS sense\) is a div that is absolutely positioned on the page.

Center the modal by setting the position with `margin:auto`:

```css
.modal{
    left:0;
    right:0;
    margin 0 auto;
}
```

## Comfortable

When a user clicks on a modal, position it in top half of the screen. Use `position:fixed` instead.

Allow the user to click a second modal. This one appears in the bottom half of the screen.

## More Comfortable

When a user clicks on a modal, position it on the top half of the screen.

The user can continue to click on modals, and they appear,. still taking up only the top half of the screen.

Change the modal to be `overflow:scroll` so the user can still read all the modal content.

As each modal is added the current ones resize themselves. to fit within the top half of the screen.

